#summary Overview of status for 0.71-Beta


= Introduction =

Here's where we're at in our testing of 0.71-Beta.


  # Install 0.71-beta on devtest.bigbluebutton.org for limited testing _(done)_
  # Install 0.71-beta on demo.bigbluebutton.org for broader testing _(done)_
  # Release the 0.71-beta Ubuntu packages for local installation and testing _(done)_
  # Release a 0.71-beta VM for download and testing

Please read 'What's new in 0.71-beta' below and help us test and stress it by visiting the following URL: *[http://demo.bigbluebutton.org/ http://demo.bigbluebutton.org/]*.   

*Note:* When you find a bug, please use the [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list issue tracker] to submit a short description along with the steps to reproduce it.  We recognize that some bugs are not deterministic, but if you can provide steps, it *greatly* assists us in quickly fixing the bugs.  We'll watch the issue list closely and use it, along with the feedback in [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev/topics?gvc=2 bigbluebutton-dev] to gauge our progress through the above stages.


= 0.71 Documentation =

Below are the links to the drafts of 0.71 documentation.  Once we ship 0.71, these documents will overwrite the existing documents and this page will be depreciated.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/071Overview Overview]
    * Temporary page giving overview of what's new in 0.71; will be merged into the release notes
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/Branding Branding]
    * Undergoing internal review
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/071DraftInstall Ubuntu Install]
    * *Draft, ready for external review*
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/InstallingBigBlueButtonCurrent Step-by-step Manual Install of BigBlueButton from source components]
    * *Draft, ready for external review*
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/ClientConfiguration Client Configuration parameters for config.xml]
    * *Draft, ready for external review* 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/DevelopBigBlueButtonCurrent Setting up development environment]
    * Undergoing internal updates

= 0.71 Issues =
Here is a [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=milestone=Release0.71 link] to the outstanding issues remaining for 0.71-beta.

= 0.71 Downloads =
The !BigBlueButton 0.71-Beta VM is not yet ready for download.  