#summary Documentation for bbb-conf, the command-line configuration tool for BigBlueButton

= Introduction =

`bbb-conf` is a script installed when you run the !BigBlueButton virtual machine or install !BigBlueButton from packages. The `bbb-conf` script helps you modify !BigBlueButton's configuration and detect possible errors in installation.

If you are installing !BigBlueButton from source, you can download `bbb-conf` from [http://github.com/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton/blob/master/bigbluebutton-config/bin/bbb-conf here].

= Running bbb-conf =
{{{
BigBlueButton Configuration Utility - Version 0.70
http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/BBBConf

bbb-conf [options]

Configuration:
   --version                        Display BigBlueButton version (packages)
   --setip <host>                   Set IP/hostname for BigBlueButton
   --conference [konference|meetme] Switch conference module in Asterisk
   --salt <salt>                    Change the security salt in bigbluebutton.properties

Monitoring:
   --check                          Check configuration files and processes for problems
   --debug                          Scan the log files for error messages
   --watch                          Scan the log files for error messages every 2 seconds

Administration:
   --restart                        Restart BigBueButton
   --clean                          Clear all the log files and restart BigBlueButton
   --zip                            Zip up log files for reporting an error

Development:
   --setup-samba                    Setup samba share for development (VM only)
   --checkout                       Checkout BigBlueButton from github
   --setup-dev [client|web|apps]    Setup development environment
   --reset-dev                      Reset environment back to using packages
   --trunk                          Checkout trunk instead of last release


}}}

To run `bbb-conf`, just type `bbb-conf` in the terminal, followed by any of the options documented below

= Options =

`bbb-conf` accepts the following options:

=== --version ===
Displays a help message with a list of available options.

=== --setip < Host > : < Port > ===

Sets the IP/Hostname and port for !BigBlueButton's configuration.

|| *Parameter* || *Required/Optional* || *Additional Information* ||
|| Host || Required || Hostname or IP of the machine where !BigBlueButton ||
|| Port || Optional || Port at which !BigBlueButton is set ||

*Example Usage:* 

{{{
   bbb-conf --setip 192.168.0.1
}}}

or

{{{
   bbb-conf --setip 192.168.0.1:8081
}}}


=== --check ===

Checks current settings and outlines any potential problems.

=== --conference _conference_module_ ===

Switches conference module in Asterisk.  Valid choices are `konference` or `meetme`.

=== --debug ===

Checks the log files for errors

=== --setup-samba ===

This command is only available if you are using the !BigBlueButton virtual machine.

It sets up a samba share for development.

=== --setup-dev [web|client|apps] ===

Checks out the project from trunk.

=== --reset-dev ===

Resets the development environment back to using packages.

=== --trunk ===
Checkout trunk instead of last release.  This option is used in front of a --setup-dev command.  Example of a full command: bbb-conf --trunk --setup-dev bbb-web

=== --clean ===
Clear all the log files and restart !BigBlueButton

=== --watch ===
Watch log files for error messages every 2 seconds

=== --zip ===
Zip up log files for reporting an error