#summary Notes on developing on the bleeding edge. Updated frequently

== Introduction ==
This document assumes you are developing from the latest source. So first thing you should do is pull the latest source if you haven't already. It's updated frequently. If you're having a problem with the latest source and this document isn't helping you, come to the #bigbluebutton channel on freenode, or write to the bigbluebutton-dev mailing list.

=== Client issues ===
Right now when you build the client using ant, the config.xml file will not be properly generated. There have been lots of changes to config.xml for 0.71 so it's important to get the latest one. You can find the latest template for it in the bbb-client/resources/config.xml.template. Copy this file to src/conf and rename it config.xml. Then change all instances of HOST to your server ip. Recompile the client.

If the client still hangs at load, and the last line in the client log (the icon on the bottom right) is:
{{{
8/31/2010 21:01:48.446 [DEBUG] JoinService:load(...) http://192.168.0.167/bigbluebutton/api/enter
}}}

The the host property of your config.xml file is wrong. See [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/ClientConfiguration#application Client Configuration] for details. In short, you're running the latest client but not the latest bbb-web, so the url of the host property is wrong. It should be:
{{{
host="http://192.168.0.167/bigbluebutton/conference-session/enter"
}}}

==== Launching from Flex/Flash Builder ====
If you get the compile error:
{{{
unable to open 'W:\dev\source\bigbluebutton\bigbluebutton-client\tests\unit'	bigbluebutton-client		Unknown	Flex Problem
}}}
Just create the missing directories. This is a problem caused by an improperly generated .actionScriptProperties file in bbb-client/


If you get the compile error:
{{{
The style 'backgroundImage' is only supported by type 'flexlib.mdi.containers.MDIWindow' with the theme(s) 'halo'.	DesktopPublishWindow.mxml	/bigbluebutton-client/src/org/bigbluebutton/modules/deskshare/view/components	line 33	Flex Problem
}}}
Right click on your project, go to Flex Compiler. Change SDK to 3.5, and Flash Player version to 10.0.0.

If the client hangs at startup:
and the last line in the log is:
{{{
8/31/2010 21:16:28.795 [DEBUG] Join FAILED = <join>
  <returncode>FAILED</returncode>
  <message>Could not find conference null.</message>
</join>
}}}
Make sure your config.xml file has the host property "conf/join-mock.xml".

If your client throws an error at startup saying it cannot find the join-mock.xml, make sure you copy it over from bbb-client/resources/dev into bbb-client/src/conf.

=== Building bbb-apps ===
First you need to go to the bbb-common-message project directory, and build it:
{{{
cd /home/firstuser/dev/source/bigbluebutton/bbb-common-message/
gradle jar
gradle uploadArchives
}}}
Then go back to bigbluebutton-apps, and you should be able to compile and deploy it:
{{{
cd /home/firstuser/dev/source/bigbluebutton/bigbluebutton-apps
gradle war deploy
}}}
Then restart red5 and you should be good to go