#summary An overview of the BigBlueButton configuration and log files.

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Overview =

BigBlueButton is comprised of a about [http://www.bigbluebutton.org/content/components 14 open source projects] along with a significant amount of additional code written by the BigBlueButton team to implement the client and server functionality for web conferencing.  

Like any large open source project, this may seem complicated at first, but when you break everything down to its components, it becomes much less complex.  Here's our attempt to carefully walk you through each of the configuration and log files to help you understand how to modify and extend BigBlueButton yourself.

The configuration files show an IP address of `192.168.0.100` -- you'll need to change it to match your local IP address when setting up BigBlueButton.

= nginx =

== Configuration files ==

=== /etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton ===

This sets up the BigBlueButton web site.

{{{
server {
     listen   80;
     server_name  192.168.0.100;  ## 1 ##

     access_log  /var/log/nginx/bigbluebutton.access.log;

      location ~ (/open/|/close/|/idle/|/send/) {
          proxy_pass         http://127.0.0.1:8088;   ## 2 ##
          proxy_redirect     off;
          proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For   $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;

          client_max_body_size       10m;
          client_body_buffer_size    128k;

          proxy_connect_timeout      90;
          proxy_send_timeout         90;
          proxy_read_timeout         90;

          proxy_buffering            off;
      }


       location /deskshare {
           proxy_pass         http://127.0.0.1:5080;   ## 3 ##
           proxy_redirect     default;
           proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For   $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           client_max_body_size       10m;
           client_body_buffer_size    128k;
           proxy_connect_timeout      90;
           proxy_send_timeout         90;
           proxy_read_timeout         90;
           proxy_buffer_size          4k;
           proxy_buffers              4 32k;
           proxy_busy_buffers_size    64k;
           proxy_temp_file_write_size 64k;
           include    fastcgi_params;
       }


       location /bigbluebutton {
           proxy_pass         http://127.0.0.1:8080;   ## 4 ##
           proxy_redirect     default;
           proxy_set_header   X-Forwarded-For   $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;

           client_max_body_size       10m;
           client_body_buffer_size    128k;

           proxy_connect_timeout      90;
           proxy_send_timeout         90;
           proxy_read_timeout         90;

           proxy_buffer_size          4k;
           proxy_buffers              4 32k;
           proxy_busy_buffers_size    64k;
           proxy_temp_file_write_size 64k;

           include    fastcgi_params;
       }

        location / {
          root   /var/www/bigbluebutton-default;   ## 5 ##
          index  index.html index.htm;
        }

        location /client { 
                root    /var/www/bigbluebutton;   ## 6 ##
                index  index.html index.htm;
        }

        #error_page  404  /404.html;

        # redirect server error pages to the static page /50x.html
        #
        error_page   500 502 503 504  /50x.html;
        location = /50x.html {
                root   /var/www/nginx-default;
        }
}
}}}
Notes:
  # The server IP/host and port 80 that nginx binds on
  # All RTMPT are forwarded to Red5 listening on port 8088
  # The deskshare servlet (for tunneling) on Red5 listening on port 5080
  # /bigbluebutton requests (presentation upload, scheduling, login, etc.) gets forwarded to Tomcat listening on port 8080. 
  # Document root for requests to BigBlueButton web application (Grails app served by tomcat6)
  # Document root for requests to load BigBlueButton client (Flash application served by nginx)

== Log files ==

=== /var/log/nginx/bigbluebutton.access.log ===
Web log of access to BigBlueButton HTML pages. 

=== /var/log/nginx/error.log ===
Web log of errors generated by nginx based on browser requests. 


= Red5 =

== Configuration files ==

=== /usr/share/red5/conf/red5-core.xml ===
Uncommented RTMPT section. This was commented out by default starting on Red5 0.8 release.
Follow this thread http://osflash.org/pipermail/red5_osflash.org/2009-June/033842.html for the reason.

=== /usr/share/red5/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton.properties ===
Properties for bbb-apps, the core BigBlueButton red5 module.

{{{
#
# Location for recordings
#
recordingsDirectory=/var/bigbluebutton


# These properties are for Asterisk Management Interface (AMI)
ami.host=127.0.0.1
ami.port=5038
ami.username=bbb
ami.password=secret
}}}

These settings enable bbb-apps to connect to the Asterisk conference server to receive events (such as when someone is talking).
== Log files ==



It also includes the location to store the recordings (i.e. voice and slides) after the conference is over.  Note this feature is not currently implemented.

=== /usr/share/red5/log/deskshare.log ===
Debug output from the deskshare red5 application, which is the red5 server component  for supporting desktop sharing in the BigBlueButton client.

=== /usr/share/red5/log/sip.log ===
Debug output from the sip red5 application, which is the red5 server component (based on Red5Phone) for supporting voice over IP in the BigBlueButton client.

=== /usr/share/red5/log/video.log ===
Debug output from the video red5 application, which is the red5 server component for supporting video in the BigBlueButton client.



= tomcat6 =

== Configuration files ==

=== /var/lib/tomcat/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties ===
This is one of the main configuration file for BigBlueButton applications.

{{{
#
# These are the default properites for BigBlueButton Web application

dataSource.url=jdbc:mysql://localhost/bigbluebutton_dev       ##  1 ##
dataSource.username=bbb                                       ##  2 ##
dataSource.password=secret                                    ##  3 ##

swfToolsDir=/bin                                              ##  4 ##
imageMagickDir=/usr/bin                                       ##  5 ##
presentationDir=/var/bigbluebutton                            ##  6 ##

# Use fullpath to ghostscript executable since the exec names are different
# for each platform.
ghostScriptExec=/usr/bin/gs                                   

# This is a workaround for a problem converting PDF files, referenced at
# http://groups.google.com/group/comp.lang.postscript/browse_thread/thread/c2e264ca76534ce0?pli=1
noPdfMarkWorkaround=/etc/bigbluebutton/nopdfmark.ps

# Inject the above values into our Grails beans
beans.presentationService.swfToolsDir=${swfToolsDir}          
beans.presentationService.imageMagickDir=${imageMagickDir}    
beans.presentationService.presentationDir=${presentationDir}  
beans.presentationService.ghostScriptExec=${ghostScriptExec}  
beans.presentationService.noPdfMarkWorkaround=${noPdfMarkWorkaround}

#
# This URL needs to reference the host running the tomcat server
bigbluebutton.web.serverURL=http://134.117.226.252            

}}}

Notes:
  # JDBC connector for mysql
  # username for mysql account for BigBlueButton web apps
  # password for mysql account for BigBlueButton web apps
  # path to SWFTOOLS directory, used to access pdf2swf binary
  # path to ImageMagick directory to access the convert binary
  # path to directory where uploaded presentations are stored

Here's a link to the [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties latest version].
  
== /var/lib/tomcat6/logs ==

=== catalina.yyyy-mm-dd.log ===
General log information from startup of tomcat6

=== localhost.yyyy-mm-dd.log ===
General log information from startup of tomcat applications

=== /var/log/syslog ===
Also contains output from tomcat6.

= Asterisk =
== Configuration files ===
=== /etc/asterisk/extensions.conf ===

{{{
; BigBlueButton: Setup sample conference
[bigbluebutton]
exten => _.,1,Goto(start-dialplan,s,1)
exten => _.,n,Hangup

[start-dialplan]
exten => s,1,Set(TRIES=1)
exten => s,n,Wait(2)
exten => s,n,Answer
exten => s,n,Goto(prompt,s,1)

[prompt]
exten => s,1,Read(CONF_NUM,conf-getconfno,6,,3,10)
exten => s,n,Goto(bbb-conference,${CONF_NUM},1)

; Context for participants who joined the voice conference using bbb-voice.
; No need to check if conference is valid as they won't be able to login
; if the conference is invalid.
[bbb-voip]
exten => _XXXX.,1,Agi(agi://localhost/findConference?conference=${EXTEN})
exten => _XXXX.,n,Playback(conf-placeintoconf)
exten => _XXXX.,n,MeetMe(${CONFERENCE_FOUND},cdMsT)


[bbb-conference]
exten => _XXXX.,1,Agi(agi://localhost/findConference?conference=${EXTEN})
exten => _XXXX.,n,GotoIf($[${EXTEN} = ${CONFERENCE_FOUND}]?valid:invalid)
exten => _XXXX.,n(valid),Playback(conf-placeintoconf)
exten => _XXXX.,n,MeetMe(${CONFERENCE_FOUND},cdMsT)
exten => _XXXX.,n(invalid),Goto(handle-invalid-conference,s,1)

[handle-invalid-conference]
exten => s,1,Playback(conf-invalid)
exten => s,n,GotoIf($[${TRIES} < 3]?try-again:do-not-try-again)
exten => s,n(try-again),Set(TRIES=$[${TRIES} + 1])
exten => s,n,Goto(prompt,s,1)
exten => s,n(do-not-try-again),Hangup

[echo-test]
;
; Create an extension, 600, for evaluating echo latency.
;
exten => 600,1,Answer                   ; Do the echo test
exten => 600,n,Playback(demo-echotest)  ; Let them know what's going on
exten => 600,n,Echo                     ; Do the echo test
exten => 600,n,Playback(demo-echodone)  ; Let them know it's over
exten => 600,n,Goto(s,6)                ; Start over
}}}

=== /etc/asterisk/manager.d/bigbluebutton.conf ===

Setup permissions for Asterisk-Java to connect.

{{{
;
; BigBlueButton: Enable Red5 to connect
[bbb]
secret = secret
permit = 0.0.0.0/0.0.0.0
read = system,call,log,verbose,command,agent,user
write = system,call,log,verbose,command,agent,user
}}}

=== /etc/asterisk/sip.conf ===

Entries for sample users for voice over IP.

{{{
;
; BigBlueButton: Echo test sample user
[echotest]
type=friend
username=echotest
insecure=very
secret=secret
qualify=yes
nat=yes
host=dynamic
canreinvite=no
context=echo-test
allow=all

;
; BigBlueButton: Setup sample user to connect over VoIP
[user1]
type=friend
username=user1
insecure=very
secret=secret
qualify=yes
nat=yes
host=dynamic
canreinvite=no
context=bigbluebutton
allow=all

;
; more ...
}}}

= BigBlueButton Client (Flash) =
== Configuration File ==
=== /var/www/bigbluebutton/client/conf/config.xml ===

{{{
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<config>
    <version>2169-2009-08-11</version>
    <porttest host="192.168.0.100" application="video"/>
        <modules>

                <module name="VideoModule" url="VideoModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/video"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                />
                <module name="ChatModule" url="ChatModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/bigbluebutton"
                        loadNextModule="PresentationModule"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                />
                <module name="ViewersModule" url="ViewersModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/bigbluebutton"
                        host="http://192.168.0.100/bigbluebutton/conference-session/enter"
                        onAppInitEvent="LOAD" loadNextModule="ChatModule"
                        onAppStartEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                />
                <module name="ListenersModule" url="ListenersModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/bigbluebutton"
                        recordingHost="http://192.168.0.100"
                        loadNextModule="DeskShareModule"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                />
                <module name="PresentationModule" url="PresentationModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/bigbluebutton"
                        host="http://192.168.0.100"
                        loadNextModule="ListenersModule"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                />

                <module name="DeskShareModule" url="DeskShareModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/deskShare"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                        loadNextModule="PhoneModule"
                />

                <module name="PhoneModule" url="PhoneModule.swf"
                        uri="rtmp://192.168.0.100/sip"
                        onUserJoinedEvent="START"
                        onUserLogoutEvent="STOP"
                        loadNextModule="VideoModule"
                />
        </modules>
</config>
}}}

[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bigbluebutton-client/src/conf/config.xml Click here to view the latest version]