#summary BigBlueButton Frequently Asked Questions
#labels Phase-Support

<wiki:toc max_depth="4"/>

----

== General ==

=== What are the minimum requirements to run !BigBlueButton? ===
We recommend you run !BigBlueButton on dual core machine with at least one Gig of memory and a 2.0 Ghz processor.

=== Can I install !BigBlueButton on CentOS? ===
Yes, you can! [InstallingBigBlueButtonCentOS CentOS instructions]

=== Can I install on Windows? ===
Short answer: no. While it's possible to manually install each of the individual OpenSourceComponents needed to run BBB on Windows, we haven't tested it. If you only have a Windows hosts, you can have a full !BigBlueButton server running in a few minutes using [http://www.vmware.com/products/player/ VMWare Player] and the BigBlueButtonVM.

=== Can I install on Debian? ===
Installing on Debian should be similar to the Ubuntu installation. Let us know if you run into problems and we'll help you set it up.

=== Can I install on !RedHat, Fedora? ===
This should be similar to CentOS, but we haven't tried it.  Again, let us know if you run into problems.

=== What are the bandwidth requirements for running a !BigBlueButton server? ===

For video streaming, each video connection takes 50 kilobytes/second. For example, if the presenter shares their video, and nine students are viewing it, then the server needs 10 * 50 k/s = 500 k/s bandwidth.  

Each voice stream takes two 8 KHZ channels and is much less bandwidth than video.  

Desktop sharing takes the most bandwidth, and it's dependent on the presenter's screen size.  The desktop sharing sends a complete refresh of the screen every 20 seconds.  

Sharing slides take almost no bandwidth beyond the initial uploading/downloading of slides.  As the presenter moves to the next slide, the viewers receive a "move next slide" command in their !BigBlueButton client, and their client's loads the next slide from cache.  

If the presenter has only 100 kilobytes/second upstream, then VoIP, video, and desktop sharing will all throttle back within that constraint.  In reality, red5/Flash does a good job of using limited bandwidth and it actually works quite well.  In the case of desktop sharing, the remote desktops will still update, just at a slower rate.







== Installation: Networking ==

=== How can I provide external access to a !BigBlueButton server behind my firewall? ===

Yes.  A typical scenario is you have !BigBlueButton running on an internal computer behind a firewall.

First, on your firewall, you need to forward three ports to the IP address of the internal computer (the !BigBlueButton server).  These are ports 80 (HTTP), 9123 (Desktop Sharing), and 1935 (RTMP).

Next, tell !BigBlueButton it's external IP address or hostname, whichever you are using to enable users to access !BigBlueButton from outside the firewall.  Do this using the `bbb-conf` command.

{{{
bbb-conf --setip <ip_or_hostname>
}}}

If you are using an external hostname, you will need to setup the /etc/hosts file on the !BigBlueButton server to know about that name.  For example, if your !BigBlueButton server has the internal IP address of 19.168.0.10 and your firewall has a fully qualified hostname of host.domain.org, add the following line to /etc/hosts.

{{{
192.168.1.10 host.domain.org
}}}

== Administration of your BBB System ==
=== How do I update my VM to the newest version? ===
If you are running a !BigBlueButton VM or had installed !BigBlueButton using packages, you can upgrade to the newest stable release with the following two commands

{{{
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
}}}

If you would like to instead upgrade to the version currently under development, you can do that too. Note that the development version is often unstable, and nobody guarantees that it will work correctly. Here's how to do it:
Log into your VM, then edit `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/bigbluebutton.list` and change

{{{
#
# Repository for BigBlueButton
#
deb http://archive.bigbluebutton.org/ bigbluebutton main
}}}

to
{{{
#
# Repository for BigBlueButton
#
deb http://archive.bigbluebutton.org/dev bigbluebutton main
}}}

Do an `apt-get update/apt-get dist-upgrade` and you'll be running the latest builds, which are not guaranteed to be stable, but you can see what's happing in the current iteration.

=== VM won't resolve packages when updating, or is not connected to the internet ===
If you're using VM player, please go to VM>Settings>Network Adapter and make sure it is set to Bridged, with the box underneath left unchecked. 
Also restart the networking on the VM by running the following command:
{{{
  sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
}}}

=== BBB is running inside the VM, but I can't access it from a browser ===
Make sure your VMWave Player network settings are set to Bridged, not NAT. Go to Devices>Network Adapter, and select 'Bridged'

=== Something is not working in the VM ... where can I go for help. ===
The best source is to post to the [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev bigbluebutton-dev] mailing list. We all hang out there and help each other.

=== Which log files should I check for errors?  ===
Log and configuration file information can be found [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/ConfigurationFiles here]

=== How to access the red5 directory on the VM ===
You might want access to the red5 directory on the Virtual Machine. The following commands will share a shortcut to the red5 folder into your dev directory.

In /usr/share/red5
  sudo chmod go+w log
  sudo chown -R firstuser *

In /home/firstuser/dev
  ln -s /usr/share/red5 red5

== Using !BigBlueButton ==
=== Desktop Sharing ===
==== What is needed to run desktop sharing? ====
!BigBlueButton uses a Java applet to capture screen updates.   This means desktop sharing works for Mac, Unix, and PC platforms.  

The presenter must have Java installed to share their desktop.  If you can view [http://java.sun.com/applets/jdk/1.4/index.html Sun's sample applets] through your browser, you should be able to share your desktop with !BigBlueButton.  To download Java for your computer, visit the [http://www.java.com/en/download/index.jsp Java download page.]

There are no additional requirements (beyond having Flash installed) for viewers to run !BigBlueButton and view the presenter's desktop.  
  
==== How can I make desktop sharing faster? ====
!BigBlueButton uses the Adobe Screen Codec to capture and transmit the desktop.  Kudos to Adobe, this is a high-quality lossless codec that gives you pixel-for-pixel view of the presenter's desktop.  If the presenter has a 32-bit background image, then the desktop sharing will send that image as well whenever it's visible.  This can slow down desktop sharing.

One easy way to speed up desktop sharing as a presenter is choose a solid color for your background image.  If you do, you'll notice that whenever the desktop is visible, the viewer's images will update relatively quickly as the algorithm is very efficient at sending solid colors.

==== Can I share a specific window when sharing my desktop ====

Unfortunately no.  Most commercial web conferencing systems download a binary file (i.e. DLL) on windows or Mac to hook into the Windows Mirror 
Driver (to get screen event updates) and to use the Windows API calls 
to find the current window.  

Most commercial applications support binaries (native code) 
for Windows and Mac and then call it.  Unix users are encourage to use 
a Mac or PC if they want to share their desktops. 

By using a Java applet, we can equally support Mac, Unix, and PC users, but it restricts us to looking at the screen, not the underlying OS.

A Java applet could, in theory, use JNI to connect into the Windows 
subsystem to make API calls, but we're back to downloading a binary 
file (DLL) to enable it.  We haven't tried this yet.


== Developing for !BigBlueButton ==

=== Setting up the Dev environment ===
See [DevelopingBBB Developing BigBlueButton] for full instructions.

=== I want to develop from Windows! ===
Even though the !BigBlueButton VM makes your life much easier, some people prefer to develop in their Windows environment instead. Once you have the development environment setup, you can mount the VM drive to Windows. When you launch Eclipse of Flex Builder simply create your workspace on the VM drive. This way you'll be developing in Windows with the source on the VM. Once you're ready to deploy, switch to the VM console and deploy using ant. We've found this is the easiest way to develop for !BigBlueButton.

=== How to compile and deploy the components of !BigBlueButton? ===
For most components of BBB, the source on the !BigBlueButton VM includes ant scripts which you can use to compile and deploy that particular component. If you have questions about compiling a specific component, post to the mailing list.

=== What if I want to develop for the Client only? ===
If you are just working on the client side, you need to edit the file config.xml (located in the src/conf folder) to point to a running instance of !BigBlueButton. Change all the IP addresses in the file to the IP of your BBB server or BBB VM. In the entry for the Viewers Module, change the attribute host to host="conf/join-mock.xml". This will enable you to launch and test the client directly from the Flex environment, bypassing the Web component of !BigBlueButton.

=== My client fails at startup with RSL error; Error 2035:URL Not Found ===
This is related to localization. Before you launch your client, you need to first separately run the ant localization task. This task is included in your client directory in the build.xml file. It needs to run separately because otherwise java will run out of memory if all tasks are ran together. You can run the localization task from the command line or from Flex if you've set up ant to work with Flex Builder. You can find instructions on how to get Ant working with Flex [http://livedocs.adobe.com/flex/3/html/help.html?content=anttasks_1.html here]

=== Where is the !BigBlueButton scheduling interface in 0.63 ===

In !BigBlueButton 0.63, we are depreciating the grails web 
interface to schedule meetings in favor of using the !BigBlueButton 
API.  We [http://demo.bigbluebutton.org/bigbluebutton/demo/demo1.jsp provided examples] of using the !BigBlueButton API to show you how to use it.  
   

== Troubleshooting ==

=== I've started a new !BigBlueButton VM but I don't know the password to login via SSH ===
When the VM first asks you to change the password, you will need to enter the password 'default' twice before it lets you change to a new password. Many people miss this. Try logging in with 'firstuser' - 'default' again.

=== I can join the voice conference but nothing appears on the Voice participant's window? ===
 * Make sure /usr/share/red5/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton.properties values matches those with /etc/asterisk/manager.d/bigbluebutton.conf

=== I can't join the voice conference? When I click on the headset icon, nothing happens?
To figure out what the problem is:
 * look at the [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/ConfigurationFiles#/usr/share/red5/log/sip.log sip.log] and look for errors.
 * Open up asterisk console {{{sudo asterisk -vvvvvvr}}} and then try clicking on the headset icon on the client again. Look at the logs on the asterisk console for clues.

 * Make sure [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton-sip.properties /usr/share/red5/webapps/sip/WEB-INF/bigbluebutton-sip.properties] (startRtpPort and stopRtpPort) has entries in [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice-conference/config/asterisk/bbb_sip.conf /etc/asterisk/bbb_sip.conf]
 * Make sure your conference number is at least 5-digits as defined by {{{exten => _XXXX.,n,Konference(${EXTEN},H)}}} in [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/source/browse/trunk/bbb-voice-conference/config/asterisk/bbb_extensions.conf /etc/asterisk/bbb_extensions.conf] 

=== When I try to join the conference, I get logged out after loading the modules ===
* Check if !BigBlueButton was ablt to connect to Asterisk AMI. Open {{{/usr/share/red5/log/bigbluebutton.log}}} and check for errors that has "login to AMI".
* Make sure that red5/webapps/bigbluebutton is running properly. Try tailing {{{tail -f /usr/share/red5/log/bigbluebutton.log}}} and try joining again. Look for clues in the resulting log.

=== bbb-conf --check reports Host IP does not match !BigBlueButton ===

In !BigBlueButton 0.63, this is really more of a warning than an error.  If you are using a DNS name, and that DNS name resolves to the IP address, or you have an external DNS name that is port forwarded to !BigBlueButton, you can safely ignore the warning.



== Other Questions ==
=== When will feature X be supported? ===
Check out the RoadMap, search the [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list issue tracker], or ask the [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev dev mailing list]. The more people ask for an issue, the faster it'll get done. So go ahead and ask
=== Other ===
If you don't see an answer here, please post your question to [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev bigbluebutton-dev] mailing list.