#summary How to install BigBlueButton on Debian
#labels Phase-Deploy

= How to install !BigBlueButton on Debian Squeeze =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

This small tutorial is an update of the step by step procedure to install a !BigBlueButton 0.71a server on Debian Squeeze 32bit. This procedure assumes you've installed the i386 version of Squeeze with only the SSH server option selected.

== 1. Pre-requesites ==

 * Add repositories with their keys
{{{
# bigbluebutton repository key
wget http://ubuntu.bigbluebutton.org/bigbluebutton.asc -O- | apt-key add -
# Freeswitch PPA key
apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys 451AE93C
echo -e "deb http://ubuntu.bigbluebutton.org/lucid/ bigbluebutton-lucid main\ndeb http://ppa.launchpad.net/freeswitch-drivers/freeswitch-nightly-drivers/ubuntu lucid main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/bigbluebutton.list
aptitude update
}}}
 * Install pre-requisites with necessary workaround for packaging bugs :
    * Install sudo
    All script are Ubuntufied so you will have to install sudo or some scripts (bbb-conf) won't work correctly.
{{{
aptitude install sudo
}}}
    * Install libmpfr
    libmpfr has been superseded by [http://packages.qa.debian.org/m/mpfr/news/20110223T163917Z.html libmpfr4] and so is no longer available in Debian Squeeze. swftools depends on it but the version in Lenny is a little bit too old (2.3.1), so instead of compiling the source and making a new package, as indicated in the old official how to, we'll just resolve the dependencies by using the one from ubuntu :
{{{
aptitude install libgmp3c2
wget http://ubuntu.mirror.cambrium.nl/ubuntu//pool/main/m/mpfr/libmpfr1ldbl_2.4.2-3ubuntu1_i386.deb
dpkg -i libmpfr1ldbl_2.4.2-3ubuntu1_i386.deb
}}}
    * Another workaround to avoid packaging errors later on :
{{{
mkdir -p /var/www/nginx-default/
touch /var/www/nginx-default/50x.html
}}}


== 2. !BigBlueButton Install ==

 * You are now ready to install !BigBlueButton
{{{
aptitude install bbb-freeswitch-config bbb-client bigbluebutton
}}}
 * Configure !BigBlueButton and start it : 
{{{
bbb-conf --clean
bbb-conf --check
bbb-conf --setip YOUR_IP
}}}

You can now go to http://YOUR_IP and try the demo.

== 3. Tips and tricks ==

!BigBlueButton works very well out of the box, but it is still quite young, and is not yet very flexible in term of configuration. So here are some tips that I collected, hoping they will save you some hours of hair pulling.

=== 3.1. Firewall setup ===

!BigBlueButton require to open 3 ports : 80, 1935, 9123. You can also open only port 80 and so tunnel everything through it, but you will most likely get bitten by [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=785 this bug] which is a [https://bugs.adobe.com/jira/browse/FP-4797 known Linux/Mac Adobe Flash bug]. Basically you will be connected, and you will be able to do things but the session will re-initalise every 20-30 seconds. This bug doesn't affect Windows users and is supposed to be solved in Flashplayer 11.0.1.3 beta for Linux and Mac.

=== 3.2. Put !BigBlueButton server behind a firewall or on a VPN ===

If you put your !BigBlueButton server on a VPN or behind a firewall and you want to configure a public access, the configuration can be very tricky. Here is an example config providing that you have the following topology : 

{{{
WEB          <=>          Web Server           <=>          BigBlueButton server
              ExtIP : bigbluebutton.mydomain.com             IP : 192.168.1.10
}}}

!BigBlueButton requires to have an IP that resolves to the same name as configured so either you can put a record in an internal DNS or add the following to its /etc/hosts :
{{{
vi /etc/hosts
-> 192.168.1.10	bigbluebutton.mydomain.com
bbb-conf --setip bigbluebutton.mydomain.com
}}} 
It will throw a message that the IP does not match but this is ok.
{{{
# IP does not match:
#                           IP from ifconfig: 192.168.1.10
#   /etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton: bigbluebutton.mydomain.com
}}}

On the Web server :
 * Forward port 9123 to !BigBlueButton's server port 9123
 * Forward port 1935 to !BigBlueButton's server port 1935
 * Configure a new vhost called bigbluebutton.mydomain.com that does a proxy pass to 192.168.1.10
 * DO NOT TRY to put it on a subfolder (ie. mydomain.com/bbb) if you don't want to have to modify lots of bigblubutton's source code.

You should now be able to access your !BigBlueButton server through http://bigbluebutton.mydomain.com 

Beware that !BigBlueButton's configuration is extremely sensitive, a slight change in the above and it might not work. 

=== 3.3. End meeting after every participants logged out ===

You can do this easily by modifying the configuration :
{{{
vi /var/lib/tomcat6/webapps/bigbluebutton/WEB-INF/classes/bigbluebutton.properties
-> beans.dynamicConferenceService.minutesElapsedBeforeMeetingExpiration=0
}}}
I found during my testing that the delay before the meeting is actually closed can vary from a few seconds to a few minutes, but it does work.

== 4. Conclusion ==

This will install a FULLY functional !BigBlueButton server on your Squeeze box. Please check the [wiki:FAQ FAQ] or the support if your encounter any issue.

== 5. References ==

  * [https://redmine.personalized-software.ie/projects/opensource/wiki/BigBlueButton_Debian_Squeeze Original version] of this tutorial with some Redmine integration tips.
  * [wiki:FAQ FAQ]

Author: Anthony Callegaro