#summary Before you hit that create issue button ...

== I have a "How to" question: ==

*1. Check the FAQ*: There are over 100 answers to common !BigBlueButton questions in our [FAQ Frequently Asked Questions].

*2. Search the mailing lists*: There are three mailing lists that you can search for answers. 

    * [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-users/topics?gvc=2 BigBlueButton-users] - Usability questions ("How do I enable full-screen mode?")
    * [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev/topics?gvc=2 BigBlueButton-dev] - Setup questions ("How do I setup my !BigBlueButton server behind a firewall?")
    * [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-setup/topics?gvc=2 BigBlueButton-setup] - Development questions ("How do I use the API create method?")

*3. Post your question:* If you don't find an answer in your search, please join and post your question to the respective list.

== I have a defect or enhancement request: ==

*1. Search the Issues database*:   [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=1&q=&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&cells=tiles Search the complete issue database] to see if someone has already reported the defect or made the enhancement request.  If you find a match, add your comments to the issue (don't create a new one!) and feel fee to vote (star the issue) for its resolution.

*2.  Post to bigbluebutton-dev:* If you are not a !BigBlueButton developer, we ask that you first post to [http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev BigBlueButton-developers] mailing list.  

 * *For a defect post:* Please provide the host operating system, the version of the browser, the version of !BigBlueButton (the build number is visible in the lower left-hand corner), and the output of `sudo bbb-conf --check` if it's a server issue.

 * *For an enhancement request post:* Let us know how we can make !BigBlueButton better. Give us a use case or user story.  Well thought out requests will get more attention and usually create a spirited discussion. 

There are over 750 members of bigbluebutton-dev, and all of the core developers monitor the list daily (sometimes hourly!).  When you post you'll get a quick response which will lead to either (a) resolution, (b) a request for you open a new issue, or (c) we'll go ahead and open one for you.

When creating a new issue, please add a url to the original discussion in bigbluebutton-dev.

Go to [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list BigBlueButton Issues List].

Grid view: [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&sort=&mode=grid&y=Component&x=Stars&cells=ids&nobtn=Update Stars] - [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&sort=&mode=grid&y=Component&x=Priority&cells=ids&nobtn=Update Priority] - [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&sort=&mode=grid&y=Component&x=Status&cells=ids&nobtn=Update Status]


Labels: [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=label:Stability&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&x=priority&y=component&mode=grid&cells=tiles Stability] - [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list?can=2&q=label:Usability&colspec=ID+Type+Status+Priority+Milestone+Owner+Component+Summary&sort=&mode=grid&y=Component&x=Priority&cells=tiles&nobtn=Update Usability]