#summary Overview of BigBlueButton's support for IMS Learning Tools Interoperability


= Overview =

!BigBlueButton version 0.81 (and later) now provides support for IMS Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI). 

!BigBlueButton can accept incoming LTI launch requests from a tool consumer, which is the IMS term for any platform that can make a LTI request to an external tool (such as !BigBlueButton).  Such platforms include !Desire2Learn, !BlackBoard, Pearson Learning Studio, etc.  See [http://www.imsglobal.org/cc/statuschart.cfm IMS Interoperability Conformance Certification Status] for a full list of LTI compliant platforms.

What this means is that without any custom code, any LTI compliant platform can add !BigBlueButton virtual classrooms to its system.  For example, the following video showshow !BigBlueButton uses LTI to integrate with !BlackBoard, click [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSTGfvICYX4&feature=youtu.be&hd=1 BigBlueButton LTI video].

== Installation of LTI module ==

You can add LTI support by installing the following package.

{{{
   sudo apt-get install bbb-lti
}}}



= Configuring !BigBlueButton as an External Tool =

All LTI consumers have the ability to launch an external application that is LTI-compliant.  !BigBlueButton is [http://www.imsglobal.org/cc/detail.cfm?ID=172 LTI 1.0 compliant].  

This means that your !BigBlueButton server can receive a single sign-on request that includes roles and additional custom parameters.  To configure an external tool in the LTI consumer, you need to provide three pieces of information: URL, customer identifier, and shared secret.  After installing the `bbb-lti` package, you can use the command `bbb-conf --lti` to retrieve these values.  

Here are the LTI configuration variables from a test !BigBlueButton server.

{{{
$ bbb-conf --lti

    URL:    http://test-install.blindsidenetworks.com/lti/tool.xml
    Key:    bbb
    Secret: b00be971feb0726fa697671c9cf2e883

  Icon URL: http://test-install.blindsidenetworks.com/lti/images/icon.ico
}}}

In the external tool configuration, we recommend privacy settings are set to *public* to allow the LMS to send lis_person_sourcedid and lis_person_contact_email_primary.  The `bbb-lti` module will use these parameters for user identification once logged into the !BigBlueButton session.  If none of them is sent by default a generic name is going to be used (Viewer for viewer and Moderator for moderator).

 
= Launching !BigBlueButton as an External Tool =

The LTI launch request passes along the user's role (, which `bbb-lti` will map to the two roles in !BigBlueButton: moderator or viewer.

If no role information is given, or if the role is privileged (i.e. . Faculty, Mentor, Administrator, Instructor, etc.), then when `bbb-lti` receives a valid launch request, it will start a !BigBlueButton session and join the user as *moderator*.  In all other cases, the user will join as a *viewer*.


== Custom Parameters ==

The `bbb-lti` module also accepts a number of custom parameters.  

|| Parameter || Type || Description ||
|| record || Boolean || Record meeting (default is false) ||
|| duration || Integer || Meeting duration. An integer number defines the number of minutes the session is going to last. When reached the number of minutes all the users are kicked off. If parameter is not set or is set to 0 the value taken is the one in the server ||
|| welcome || Text || Welcome message that appears in chat dialog (default is the global welcome message on the !BigBlueButton server) ||
|| voicebridge || Ingerer || An integer number can be used to define the voicebridge the session is going to have (Be aware that this number must be unique for the Meeting and the BigBlueButton server) ||
|| mode || String || [simple|extended] When using the launching link, if mode is set to simple only single sign on will be executed, if it is set to extended and record is true, the interface for recordings will be shown as a pre-launching page. The value by default is the one configured in the lti.properties file ||
For example, if you add `record=true` to as a custom launch parameter, then then `bbb-lti` module will record your session and show you a list of previously recorded sessions.