#summary Notes on setting up the dev environment, but not on the VM

Not for beginners. This is a rough set of guidelines on how to set up the bbb dev environment on Unix system.
  # Get BBB up and running. If you're not on Ubuntu 10.04 32bit then you have to follow manual instructions for w/e you're on. If you're setting up on non-Ubuntu, the paths for some things may be different.
  # Need to grab the /home/firstuser/dev/tools directory off the VM and copy it to the dev machine ~/dev/tools.
  # Copy the ~/.profile script from the VM to ~/.profile. Then do 'source .profile'. You may need to change 'firstuser' in the script 
  # Install openjdk-6-jdk: sudo apt-get install openjdk-6-jdk . You could do another java but I know everything works well with openjdk and the paths will be easier to midify.
  # Do bbb-conf --setup-samba anyway, the script has some side-effects
  # Do bbb-conf --setup-dev client
  # Try building the client with 'ant'
  # If client build fails, find flexTasks.jar in ~/dev/tools/flex dir and copy it to where ant says it expects it
  # Edit /etc/nginx/sites-available/bigbluebutton. Change the client to load from where you have it instead of /home/firstuser
  # Do bbb-conf --setup-dev apps
  # Go to the bbb-apps source (~/dev/source/bbb/bbb-apps/). Edit build.gradle and change any instances of 'firstuser' to whatever your user name is.
  # Build and deploy apps as normal (gradle war deploy). Then restart red5. make sure it starts with no errors.
  # Do bbb-conf --setup-dev web.
  # Go to bbb source, edit bigbluebutton-web/grails-app/conf/bigbluebutton.properties. Change the salt there to your salt and the ip of the server to your server/domain. This is so you don't have to run bbb-conf --setip and --setsalt after you deploy.
  # Instead of the usual instructions to run bbb-web, go to bbb-web source and do 'grails war'. This should create bigbluebutton.war if you're lucky ;) . Copy it to /var/lib/tomcat6/webapps/bigbluebutton.war.
  # Restart tomcat (/etc/init.d/tomcat6 restart). Make sure it starts fine with no errors in /var/lib/tomcat6/logs/catalina.out