#This page describes some basic work on performance testing on BigBlueButton server (server on Linux, clients on Windows or Linux)

= Introduction =

A few small script files were written to measure the CPU/Memory usage (in percentage) by BigBlueButton server processes (Java, pdftk, pdf2swf, Asterisk, etc.) for a specific period of time. The measurement output are in text/Excel/CSV formats for easy data manipulation. And also some HTML files (data/navigation) are generated for easy access to the current measurement data (and historical measurements) from the web browser.

The server scripts were written in Linux Shell program utilizing existing system functions such as _top_, _ps_, _grep_, _gawk_, etc. The _top_ command is a good built in tool to find CPU/Memory utilizations for Linux. So it is the "engine" of the server scripts.

The clients scripts were written in VBS and Dos batch for Windows, and in Linux Shell for Linux. The clients scripts are mainly providing user friendly testing environment (such as login-free web client loading and multiple clients loading by one command). 


= Details =

== Linux Shell scripts - server ==
The logic of the server scripts are as the following:
   {{{
      1. use "ps", to find the process ids (PIDs) for persistent processes by part of their names 
         (i.e., "tomcat" can be input as Apache Tomcat process´ name - the more detailed the better)
      2. run "top" to get CPU/Memory usage data, filtering the results by the PIDs found in step1 and by exact CMD names 
         (i.e., "pdf2swf" is the CMD name for the process to convert PDF to SWF, since it is not a persistent process like tomcat, 
         it has no consistant PID, so its CMD name can be used to identify it) 
      3. the results of the step 2 will be processed by another script to get the overall CPU/Memory usage data by the specified processes
      4. pause a specified period of time
      5. repeat 1 - 3 until the user exits or predefined loop times are reached
      6. make conrespondent text, xls, csv and html files
   }}}

The core Linux Shell commands for the above steps are:
   {{{
      1. ps -AF | gawk '/tomcat|activemq-|red5|bigbluebutton|ant-/ {print}' | 
         gawk '!/gawk|findPidByName.sh/ {print}' | gawk '{printf "%d\t%d\t%s\n", $2, $3, $11, $12 >> "ProcessIdsFile"}'
      2. top -b -n 1 -d 1 | gawk '$1 ~ /^11542$|^13591$|^25279$/{print}$12 ~ /^pdftk|^pdf2swf/{print} $1 !~ /^[0-9]/ {print}'
      3. echo -e "Output of step 2 (see below)" | gawk '
                    BEGIN {
                       lineNum=1
                    }
                    /^top/ { lineNum += 1 }
                    /^[0-9]/ {  
                       totalCPU += $9
                       totalMem += $10
                    }
                    END {
                       printf "%d,%f,%f\n", lineNum, totalCPU, totalMem >> outfile
                    } '
      4. sleep 1 (or .500 for 500 ms)
      
      Output of step 2 (top command):
      
         top - 11:40:06 up 38 days, 21:21,  2 users,  load average: 0.02, 0.02, 0.00
         Tasks:  99 total,   1 running,  98 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
         Cpu(s):  0.1%us,  0.0%sy,  0.0%ni, 99.8%id,  0.0%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
         Mem:   2071216k total,  1591896k used,   479320k free,   304520k buffers
         Swap:  2031608k total,        0k used,  2031608k free,   844584k cached

         PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND
         11542 root      22   0  696m 136m  13m S    0  6.7  40:45.94 java
         13591 root      25   0  682m  65m  11m S    0  3.2  22:58.78 java
         25279 root      22   0  227m  77m  10m S    0  3.8   3:43.35 java
         
   }}}

The source code can be downloaded at:
http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/downloads/list
  
== Linux Shell scripts - client ==
The purpose of the script is to allow users to open several instances (say 20) Login-free BigBlueButton clients in Firefox (or other browsers) at one command under Linux systems.

It can be called as (to open 10 instances (tabs) of BBB clients in Firefox)
   {{{
      sh bbbcLinux.sh firefox 10 [http://a.b.c/BigBlueButton.html]
   }}}

== VBS/Dos batch - client ==
The purpose of the scripts is to allow users to open several instances (say 20) Login-free BigBlueButton clients in Firefox (or IE) at one command under Windows systems.

It can be called as (to open 10 instances (tabs) of BBB clients in Firefox and 10 IE windows)
   {{{
      bbbc ie 10 firefox 10 [http://a.b.c/BigBlueButton.html]
   }}}