= Release 0.71: Titanic=

_Code named in honor of the famous ship that sunk._ 


Released: November 12, 2010

  * * VoIP Improvements * - This was the bulk of our effort for 0.71. We improved the algorithms to handle audio packets coming to and from the !BigBlueButton server. You should experience less audio lag using VoIP when compared to 0.70. (We'll let you judge the extent to which the lag has been reduced.)

 !BigBlueButton 0.71 now supports FreeSWITCH as a voice conference server. This enables the BigBlueButton client to transmit either wide-band (16 kHz) Speex or the Nellymoser voice codec. In our testing so far, we found that nellymoser scales better and will remain the default voice codec in !BigBlueButton.

  * * Webcam Auto-Display * - When a user shares their webcam, it automatically opens on all other users connected to the virtual classroom.

  * * Regional Desktop Sharing * - The Desktop Sharing application now supports selecting a region your the desktop and not just fullscreen.  This allows the user to select a specific window or region and also helps to reduce the bandwidth.

  * * Client Localization * -  The localization of the client has been made user selectable as well as automatic.  This allows a user to change their UI and chat language regardless of what the browser local is.

  * * Auto Chat Translation * - Automatic chat translation allows for chat messages to be translated into the language of the currently selected local.  This allows the user to view the chat in their native language.  Translation is done through Google Translate's API.

  * * Branding * - You can now change the look and feel of bbb using css. Check the [Branding] page for more info.  

  * * Client Configuration * - You now have more control over certain functionality of !BigBlueButton. You can change the video quality, define who can share video, allow moderators to kick users, etc... Check the [ClientConfiguration Client Configuration] page for more info.   

  * * Breakout Meetings (experimental) * - Sometimes you want to split up your conference into several smaller meetings right from inside !BigBlueButton. You can now do that using the new optional Breakout Module. See this blog post for more info. _This feature is not enabled by default._