#summary Release Notes for new versions of BigBlueButton.

= Release 0.63 _Draft_=

== New Features ==

 * * API for creating conferences* - 
 * * Localization Support* -
 * * Support for other file formats* -
 * * Improved Presentation Module* -
 * * VoIP stability* -

== Fixed Issues ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=105 Issue 105]   	   	 Track the presenter's mouse movements
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=144 Issue 144]   	   	 Phone Module drops connection and automatically reconnects periodically
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=152 Issue 152]   	   	 Add support for appkonference
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=184 Issue 184]   	   	 Headset icon should give an error message if bbb-apps-voice was unable to connect
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=194 Issue 194]   	   	 Built-in VoIP will automatically reconnect if you eject yourself from a voice conference.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=214 Issue 214]   	   	 VoIP stops working
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=219 Issue 219]   	   	 Webcam not closing on clicking logout
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=233 Issue 233]   	   	 java.io.IOException: Too many open files 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=237 Issue 237]   	   	 problem with phone component
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=241 Issue 241]   	   	 VM needs to detect when unable to connect to network
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=242 Issue 242]   	   	 Can't upload 3 different file in a row
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=244 Issue 244]   	   	 bigbluebutton-sip.properties not properly updated by the bbb-apps-sip Ubuntu package
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=246 Issue 246]   	   	 How to reset username for voice Conferrence?
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=250 Issue 250]   	   	 Widen window to upload presentation
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=251 Issue 251]   	   	 How to Improve Voice Conference.?
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=257 Issue 257]   	   	 Is full path required for officeToolsDir?
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=260 Issue 260]   	   	 Reset layout button reverts to old layout settings
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=262 Issue 262]   	   	 Better error checking on VM startup scripts
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=270 Issue 270]   	   	 Change filter on File/Open dialog box to select other file types when uploading a presentation
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=275 Issue 275]   	   	 Fisheyes + view doesn't update in new presentation module
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=278 Issue 278]   	   	 Error popup on client double each time an error is thrown
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=279 Issue 279]   	   	 Fisheyes bug when clicking outside of a slide
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=281 Issue 281]   	   	 Reset zoom in presentation module doesn't work
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=282 Issue 282]   	   	 Deskshare not coming up on devbuild server
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=286 Issue 286]   	   	 change ACL for /var/bigbluebutton
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=299 Issue 299]   	   	 Presentation display element does not resize with change in presentation window.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=301 Issue 301]   	   	 Installation - sed: -e expression #1, char 90: unterminated 's' command
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=302 Issue 302]   	   	 NullPointerException status 500

=== Issues yet to fix for 0.63. _Please update_ ===
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=68 Issue 68]   	   	 Video connection will disconnect after a period of inactivity
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=123 Issue 123]   	   	 Add annotation to presentation module
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=143 Issue 143]   	   	 unable to mute a particular voice participant.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=151 Issue 151]   	   	 bbb voice leaks memory
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=188 Issue 188]   	   	 First Code review request from Yuntao
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=190 Issue 190]   	   	 Create an API to enable third-party applications to easily integrate BigBlueButton
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=202 Issue 202]   	   	 meetmeID in create conference api
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=211 Issue 211]   	   	 Ability to share and present PowerPoint documents (enhancement)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=232 Issue 232]   	   	 Red5Phone module needs to show more useful information
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=238 Issue 238]   	   	 Can't send message in chat anymore
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=245 Issue 245]   	   	 Two suggestions for bbb-conf
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=254 Issue 254]   	   	 Camera sharing button disappeared
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=256 Issue 256]   	   	 Post login page doesn't show ip address/hostname
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=258 Issue 258]   	   	 Ensure that 0.63 uses Red5 8.0, not Red5 8.0 RC2
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=261 Issue 261]   	   	 Add option to bbb-conf to reduce logging in BigBlueButton
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=263 Issue 263]   	   	 Red5 log files are not rotating
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=264 Issue 264]   	   	 bbb links to 192.168.0.136
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=265 Issue 265]   	   	 Fit presentation window to slides when maximizing
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=266 Issue 266]   	   	 Need a way to reduce logging levels for VoIP
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=267 Issue 267]   	   	 Need to modify the version code for each release
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=269 Issue 269]   	   	 Frozen File Conversion Process
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=273 Issue 273]   	   	 Localization support
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=274 Issue 274]   	   	 If not default localization is set, client shows null null null
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=277 Issue 277]   	   	 Prevent presentation module to have more than XXX slides to load
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=280 Issue 280]   	   	 Presentation module bug when entering a conference without any presentation file loaded
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=284 Issue 284]   	   	 ip address failure causes packages to not be installed
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=289 Issue 289]   	   	 Dynamic conferences not recognized by AGI findConference request
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=291 Issue 291]   	   	 Fit to zoom isn't enabled by default in Presentation
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=300 Issue 300]   	   	 Uploaded presentations not available to alternate presenters.

= Release 0.62: Nebula NGC604 =

_Code named in honor of Nubula NGC604_

Released: November 11, 2009

== New Features ==

  * *Better Desktop Sharing!* - We've made our Desktop Sharing much better by reverse engineering the Adobe Screen Codec from specs.  The result is much faster, platform independent implementation for desktop sharing.   To share their desktop, the presenter must have Java (1.6) installed to run a Java applet.   There is no changes required for the viewers to view the presenter's desktop.  We've also simplified the user interface for both presenter and viewer

  * *Full built-in development environment* - The !BigBlueButton VM makes it easier to modify and build your own versions of !BigBlueButton.  See [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/Developing_BigBlueButton developing in BigBlueButton].  

  * *Updated command-line tools* - The command-line tools `bbb-setip` and `bbb-setupdev` have been consolidated into a single script `bbb-conf`. If you modify your setup, typing `bbb-conf --check` will perform some checks on your setup to look for common configuration problems with running !BigBlueButton

== To upgrade your !BigBlueButton 0.61 installation to 0.62 ==

If you are running  !BigBlueButton VM 0.61 -- either from VM or from [InstallationUbuntu apt-get packages] -- you can upgrade your installation to !BigBlueButton 0.62 with with three commands.

{{{
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get upgrade
  sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
}}}

*Note*: Be sure to do `sudo apt-get update` _before_ `sudo apt-get dist-upgrade`.  We've moved out a lot of configuration files into a new package called `bbb-common`.  If you skip doing an `upgrade` and go directly to `dist-upgrade`, the package manager will complain that `bbb-common` is trying to overwrite files owned by another package.  

*Note*: If you had desktop sharing installed, you can upgrade the apt-get install command described in InstallingDesktopSharing.


== Fixed Issues ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=11 Issue 11]   	 Listeners window not getting updates
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=110 Issue 110] Deskshare works only when tunneling on Mac OS X
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=150 Issue 150] Deskshare applet should test port to check if it should tunnel
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=168 Issue 168] One one deskshare usage per session
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=170 Issue 170] Switching presenter while screensharing results in old presenter seeing screenshare viewer window
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=177 Issue 177] When selecting a slide from the fisheye control, the cursor becomes an i-beam
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=179 Issue 179] Zooming can cause a slide to disapper when clicking next
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=180 Issue 180] Deskshare can leave a stream open
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=187 Issue 187] Improve slide navigation from keyboard
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=189 Issue 189] Improve speed of Desktop Sharing
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=200 Issue 200] Update build.sh scripts with Virtual Machine
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=201 Issue 201] Update desktop sharing video
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=203 Issue 203] Create wiki on how to setup development environment
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=204 Issue 204] Update Installing BBB from source wiki
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=208 Issue 208] Port 9123 could still be in use on restart of red5
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=220 Issue 220] Not all viewers automatically seeing the shared desktop
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=221 Issue 221] Tooltips for all icons
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=226 Issue 226] Desktop sharing window remains open when sharer closes connection / crashes
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=229 Issue 229] Last frame of desktop sharing is visible to viewers
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=230 Issue 230] Flash debug client shows messages

== Known Issues ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=233 Issue 233] 	java.io.IOException: Too many open files
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=227 Issue 227] BBB apps (Red5) should reconnect to ActiveMQ when connection drops
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=214 Issue 214] VoIP stops working
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=198 Issue 198] Mozilla crashes uploading PDF

= Release 0.61: Titan =

Released: September 15, 2009

_Code named in honor of Saturn's largest moon_

== New Features ==

In preparation for schools and universities that are using !BigBlueButton for the fall term, this month saw a lot of bug fixes, hardening, and a few new features.  Our goal was (and continues to be) to make the !BigBlueButton code base as solid as possible.  Notable additions to this release include:

  * *Support for High Res Web Cameras* - As presenter, if you have the bandwidth, it's now possible to share video using your webcam at 640x480 high resolution or 320x240 standard resolution.  We've refactored the video module itself so the code is much cleaner and better organized.

  * *Simplified Desktop Sharing User Interface* - We've simplified the user experiences for initiating desktop sharing.  It now shares the entire desktop by default.  We've also refactored the desktop sharing module.

  * *Refactored slide conversion* - We went deep into the slide conversion process and fixed a number of bugs. 

  * *Desktop Sharing and Xuggler * - The sharing capture applet now divides the presenter's screen into distinct tiles and only sends to the server the tiles that have changed since the last frame.  The desktop sharing also uses Xuggler re-assemble the tiles and compress the images into a flash video stream.  Because desktop sharing incorporates Xuggler, which is licensed under the AGPL, we've had to make desktop sharing a separate module (don't worry, you can install it with a single command). 
However, if you choose to incorporate desktop sharing into !BigBlueButton, you must accept the AGPL license for !BigBlueButton. This has similar implications for any web application that, in turn, incorporates !BigBlueButton.
For information on installing desktop sharing in !BigBlueButton and how it changes the licensing, please see [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/InstallingDesktopSharing how to install desktop sharing].


== To upgrade your installation ==

If you are running a !BigBlueButton VM or had installed !BigBlueButton using packages, you can upgrade to this release with the following two commands

{{{
  sudo apt-get update
  sudo apt-get upgrade
}}}

*Note:* If you get an error during upgrade, just run `sudo apt-get upgrade` again.  We refactored the install scripts and a previous install script and new install scrip both reference the same configuration file.  Running the upgrade command a second time will solve the problem as the first time upgrades all the install script.

== Fixed Issues ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=25 Issue 25] Windows can get hidden or off-screen
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=52 Issue 52] First moderator should become default presenter
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=66 Issue 66] Progress should include generating thumbnails
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=71 Issue 71] Reload after login doesn't load the person back into the session
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=90 Issue 90] deskshare-app blocks red5 from restarting
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=72 Issue 72] Upon uploading a presentation the first slide does not show
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=115 Issue 115] Windows respond very poorly when maximized
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=128 Issue 128] Unable to drag desktop sharing window while sharing fullscreen
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=129 Issue 129] !BigBlueButton client will hang for ~ 1 minute while it waits for direct connection to 1935 to timeout
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=146 Issue 146] User can log in without entering a username
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=149 Issue 149] Session not invalidated after logout
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=157 Issue 157] Red5 ip is lost after upgrading
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=161 Issue 161] Red5 logs are erased on restart
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=163 Issue 163] Sharing full screen may cause red5 server to halt
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=166 Issue 166] Video screen not resized according to the window resize
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=168 Issue 168] One one deskshare usage per session
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=169 Issue 169] Make "USB Video Class Video" default choice for Mac
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=175 Issue 175] Maximize deskshare window when in full screen causes hang
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=176 Issue 176] Share web cam icon allows multiple clicks
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=178 Issue 178] Reset layout should reset sizes of windows

== Known Issues ==
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=181 Issue 181] Stopping deskshare crashes Safari
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=180 Issue 180] Deskshare can leave a stream open ~~
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=179 Issue 179] Zooming can cause a slide to disapper when clicking next~~ 
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=170 Issue 170] Switching presenter while screensharing results in old presenter seeing screenshare viewer window~~ 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=153 Issue 153]  The Show button on the Upload Window doesn't work

= 0.6 Release: Mir Space Station. August 12 2009=


=== New Features ===
* Integrated VOIP *

Participants can now use their headset to join a voice conference using voice over IP (VoIP).  For sites that setup !BigBlueButton to connect to the phone system, both VoIP and dial-in participants can share the same voice conference.

The VoIP capability is based on the [http://code.google.com/p/red5phone Red5Phone] project to connect Asterisk and Red5.

=== Fixed Issues ===
Here are the list of issues we fixed on this release:
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=67 Issue 67] Red5 Phone Module
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=69 Issue 69] Users do not see slides from presenter
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=98 Issue 98] Left and Right arrow keys not working
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=99 Issue 99] Update Reset Zoom icon
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=104 Issue 104] Add Desktop Sharing to !BigBlueButton  
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=106 Issue 106] Unable to start desktop sharing
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=108 Issue 108] Client does not provide proper feedback when logging out
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=114 Issue 114] Client trying to load history.js and history.htm
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=117 Issue 117] Log window is hard to read 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=118 Issue 118] Limitation of conference session does not work.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=121 Issue 121] Can't input chat text in full screen mode
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=125 Issue 125] Build bbb-apps from VM
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=130 Issue 130] Hearing voices after logging out 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=135 Issue 135] Participant entry sound plays when user icon is clicked
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=136 Issue 136] Phone Logout null pointer exception
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=138 Issue 138] Unmute-all icon mis-aligned
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=139 Issue 139] bbb-setip not detecting rtmp port

=== Known Issues ===
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=141 Issue 141] Impossible to disconnect from voice-conference w/o logging out
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=133 Issue 133] Webcam window still visible to other participants after logging out~~
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=129 Issue 129] Client takes too long to test port 1935 and start tunneling~~
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=127 Issue 127] Video stream not properly closing in client
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=107 Issue 107] Cut-and-paste url should give a login error~~
 * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=88 Issue 88] PDF slide with many symbols causing long delay
 * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=72 Issue 72] Upon uploading a presentation the first slide does not show~~

Released: August 12, 2009

= 0.5 Release: Apollo 11 =

Released: July 21, 2009

_Code named in honor of the 40th anniversary of the moon landing_

=== New Features ===
* Desktop Sharing *

Desktop Sharing has been in development for a long time.  We wanted a solution that would work on all three platforms (Mac, Unix, and PC), so we decided to use a Java Applet to grab to send screen updates to the Red5 server.  We then used Xuggler from within Red5 to create a live stream from the incoming images from the applet.

From the presenter's perspective, there is a new screen icon on the top toolbar. Once clicked, the presenter can choose the area of their screen to share.  Clicking on Start Sharing causes this area of their screen to appear on all the clients.  While sharing the presenter can still drag around the window to determine which portion of the screen gets shared.

* Private Chat *

Any participant can now chat privately with anyone else in the room by choosing their name from the drop-down menu in the chat window.

Under the hood, the private chat works in the same way as the public chat, except that each participant has a dedicated shared object on the server to which messages get sent, and to which only they listen to.

=== Fixed Issues ===
Here are the list of issues we fixed on this release:
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=109 Issue 109] Cannot upload twice a file
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=101 Issue 101] Red5 video app has significant delay
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=96 Issue 96] Fixed the thumbnail view in presentation module to be more responsive and user friendly
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=94 Issue 94] Change applet certificate
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=93 Issue 93] deskshare-client should tunnel through port 80
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=87 Issue 87] Logout should close the deskshare module
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=85 Issue 85] Added a zoom slide to presentation module, for users without mousewheel
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=84 Issue 84] Only one instance of the upload window can now be opened.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=78 Issue 78] Added Desktop Sharing. The presenter can now do a screen-cast
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=75 Issue 75] bbb-setupdev -s (setup samba) now gives the correct path
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=5 Issue 5] Added Private Chat. Participants can now chat privately with any other participant in the conference

=== Known Issues ===
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=112 Issue 112] Desk share video shows the final frame when presenter logs out
  * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=111 Issue 111] Desk share video has narrow yellow stripe at the top~~
  * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=110 Issue 110] Deskshare works only when tunneling on Mac OS X ~~
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=95 Issue 95] Deskshare app sometimes crashes
  * ~~[http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=90 Issue 90] deskshare-app blocks red5 from restarting~~

= Release 0.4 =

Released: June 12, 2009

Much of the effort in this release was on creating individual packages for the components, creating a [http://bigbluebutton.org/hudson/ Continuous Integration Server] using Hudson, and distributing the entire package as a [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/BigBlueButtonVM downloadable virtual machine].

Other updates include:
  * !BigBlueButton client now supports tunneling through a firewall via port 80
  * Uploading of multiple slides

= Release 0.32 =
Added
  * Pan and zoom around the slide with the mouse and mouse-wheel