#summary Thank you for considering applying to BigBlueButton for your Summer of Code project!

!BigBlueButton's SoC profile can be found [http://socghop.appspot.com/gsoc/org/show/google/gsoc2010/bigbluebutton_soc here].

Before you submit your application feel free to discuss your project proposal with the project by writing to our developer mailing list at http://groups.google.com/group/bigbluebutton-dev. This way we can give you feedback on your proposal, and it will give you a good idea of the overview of the project and introduce you to the !BigBlueButton community. If you'd like to chat with a developer or other potential summer of code students, you can visit our [http://devbuild.bigbluebutton.org development server] where you'll usually be able to find people hanging out.

Here are some questions to get you started on your proposal. You don't have to follow it and you're application will still be considered, but it's a good place to start. Feel free to include anything else you feel is important.

== General Questions ==
  # Give us a short introduction of yourself.
  # Email address we can reach you at.
  # What are you studying. What year of study will you be in September 2010?
  # What else are you doing this summer except Google Summer of Code?

== Your Experience ==
  # Have you worked on an open source project before? Which ones? Describe your participation.
  # Have you worked for a Sofware company before, as a programmer?
  # How many years of experience do you have programming?

== Skills ==
  # What programming languages are you fluent in? What are your programming interests? Are you a C guy - do you like to get down and dirty with the linux kernel? Or are you more of a python/ruby person? You know, what's your style?
  # How confortable are you with version control? SVN? Git?
  # Have you used any build systems, such as Ant, Maven, or Gradle?
  # How confortable are you learning new programming language? Haw you heard of Scala, or Groovy?
  # Do you have experience with Linux? How much?
  # What tools & IDEs do you usually use to develop?

== Project Questions ==

  # What idea did you choose?
  # Elaborate on the idea and describe what you would like to accomplish during the summer. This question is especially important if you have your own idea instead of picking one from our list, as we want to have a good understanding of what you're proposing so we can help you take the idea forward.
  # If your project is very successful, do you wish to contributing to it further once Google Summer of Code is complete?
  # Give us a brief timeline of the project for the things you'd like to accomplish.
  # Have you discussed your project with the community? If yes, please include a link to the discussion in your application. You can get a link by browsing the list archive online.
  # Feeling ambitious? Try to build !BigBlueButton from source. It's by no means an easy task! And we don't mean use the provided scripts/packages. We mean [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/wiki/InstallingBigBlueButton source]. It's like a rite of passage around here. Let us know how your journey went.
  # Feeling really ambitious? Go through our [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/list issue tracker] and fix a bug. Try submitting a patch.