#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Phase-Implementation
#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

Add your content here.

<wiki:video url="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3LkNlTNHZzE"/>

= Details =
=Using Grails web-development framework for unit test development=

  ==*Work achieved this week:==
  *> Installed Grails into the development enviroment
  *> Wrote a simple application in grails.
  *> Wrote a basic unit test case to test the application wrote

  ==_Roadblocks_==
  *> Was not able to run the grails application.
  *> was not able to download BBB_web source codes

  ==_Details_==
  
  ===*Installing Grails:*===
  # Note: you have to have JDK 1.5.0.x installed and you JAVA_HOME is pointing to it.
  #1- You can download Grails from the following location http://grails.org/Download
  #2- Unzip the files to the location where you want Grails to be installed
  #3- Go to Control Panel->System->Advanced settings-> Environment variables and add a GRAILS_HOME to your system environment variables. Set the variables pointing to where grails is installed.
  #4- Add GRAILS_HOME\bin to your path.

  ===*Problems*===
  # Whenever I try to run the application I created with grails I get this error:
Base Directory: C:\Users\Hishamo\gTunes
Running script C:\tools\Grails\grails-1.1\scripts\RunApp.groovy
Environment set to development
  [groovyc] Compiling 1 source file to C:\Users\Hishamo\.grails\1.1\projects\gTunes\classes
[native2ascii] Converting 11 files from C:\Users\Hishamo\gTunes\grails-app\i18n to C:\Users\Hishamo\
.grails\1.1\projects\gTunes\resources\grails-app\i18n
Error executing script RunApp: : Error starting Sun's native2ascii:
gant.TargetExecutionException: : Error starting Sun's native2ascii:
        at gant.Gant$_dispatch_closure4.doCall(Gant.groovy:331)
        at gant.Gant$_dispatch_closure6.doCall(Gant.groovy:334)
        at gant.Gant$_dispatch_closure6.doCall(Gant.groovy)
        at gant.Gant.withBuildListeners(Gant.groovy:344)
        at gant.Gant.this$2$withBuildListeners(Gant.groovy)
        at gant.Gant$this$2$withBuildListeners.callCurrent(Unknown Source)
        at gant.Gant.dispatch(Gant.groovy:334)
        at gant.Gant.this$2$dispatch(Gant.groovy)
        at gant.Gant.invokeMethod(Gant.groovy)
        at gant.Gant.processTargets(Gant.groovy:495)
        at gant.Gant.processTargets(Gant.groovy:480)
Caused by: : Error starting Sun's native2ascii:
        at org.apache.tools.ant.taskdefs.optional.native2ascii.SunNative2Ascii.run(SunNative2Ascii.j
ava:67)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.taskdefs.optional.native2ascii.DefaultNative2Ascii.convert(DefaultNa
tive2Ascii.java:54)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.taskdefs.optional.Native2Ascii.convert(Native2Ascii.java:268)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.taskdefs.optional.Native2Ascii.execute(Native2Ascii.java:227)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.dispatch.DispatchUtils.execute(DispatchUtils.java:105)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.Task.perform(Task.java:348)
        at _GrailsPackage_groovy$_run_closure2_closure13.doCall(_GrailsPackage_groovy:108)
        at _GrailsPackage_groovy$_run_closure2_closure13.doCall(_GrailsPackage_groovy)
        at _GrailsSettings_groovy$_run_closure10.doCall(_GrailsSettings_groovy:269)
        at _GrailsPackage_groovy$_run_closure2.doCall(_GrailsPackage_groovy:107)
        at RunApp$_run_closure1.doCall(RunApp.groovy:28)
        at gant.Gant$_dispatch_closure4.doCall(Gant.groovy:324)
        ... 10 more
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: sun.tools.native2ascii.Main
        at org.codehaus.groovy.tools.RootLoader.findClass(RootLoader.java:156)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(Unknown Source)
        at org.codehaus.groovy.tools.RootLoader.loadClass(RootLoader.java:128)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(Unknown Source)
        at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClassInternal(Unknown Source)
        at java.lang.Class.forName0(Native Method)
        at java.lang.Class.forName(Unknown Source)
        at org.apache.tools.ant.taskdefs.optional.native2ascii.SunNative2Ascii.run(SunNative2Ascii.j
ava:51)
        ... 21 more

==*Plan for next week*==

  # Solve the problem with running grails apps and get more familiar with grails.
  # Download the BBB_web source codes.
  # Write some basic unit test cases for the BBB-source code
  

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages