#summary Discuss uses of phidgets.

= Introduction =

Please contribute your ideas on using phidgets in BigBlueButton.


= Details =

The following user stories describe opportunities for using phidgets. They are the results of a number of brainstorming sessions as well as contributions from the community.

== Confusing Meter (was Red/Green/Yellow) ==

A feedback mechanism for remote users to indicate their level of confusion. Red - high level of confusion (something needs to be done). Green - low level of confusion. Yellow - changing from green to red. Colored LEDs can be used to indicate the confusion level. Uses: [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=0&product_id=1012 interface kit].

== Participation Thermometer ==

Notify moderator or in-class users in a hybrid class room (with both local and remote students) as remote users join or drop. This would also provide visibility to in-class users of the remote users, and help integrate both groups. Could also use this to keep track of audio users. This could be implemented in different ways, eg using [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=0&product_id=1012 LEDs] or a needle on a dial moved by a [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=11&product_id=2000 servo motor].

== Beeper (or We Can't Hear You Indicator) ==

Indicate that remote users cannot hear the audio. For instance, the moderator may have forgotten to unmute a participant. There is no way of user informing the moderator through the audio link. The chat window may also be covered. Could use a blinking [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=0&product_id=1012 LED], or some play to play a sound (don't know which phidget to use).

== Clicker ==

Build a clicker from [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?product_id=1110 touch sensors] or [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=3&product_id=1106 force sensors]. Use [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=0&product_id=1012 LEDs] to show the result, or show it on the screen.

== Not sure I understand button ==

Similar to the Hands Up feature, but using a Phidget sensor. This is an example of an opportunity to use Phidgets at the remote user's end.

== Visitor ==

Using a Participation Meter or in some other way (eg using a [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=9&product_id=3052 relay] to turn on a lamp) notify us that somebody is using the BigBlueButton demo server.

== Zooming ==

Use a touch sensor for zomming in and out of a presentation. Could use a [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=4&product_id=1015 linear touch sensor].

== Gesture Recognition == 

Use an [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=5&product_id=1059 accelerometer] as a gesture device.

== Shadow Detection ==

My notes say: using an infrared (sensor) vs shadow on a whiteboard (don't know what we meant by this).


== Server Status ==

Use an [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=0&product_id=1012 LED] or a [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=11&product_id=2000 servo motor] to notify an administrator of the status of a BigBlueButton server.

== 2D/3D Space ==

Use [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=2 distance], [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=5 motion] and [http://www.phidgets.com/products.php?category=6&product_id=1127 light] sensors to track movement of a presenter in a room, and use that information to do things such as switching to another camera (eg for a whiteboard or to show an experiment in a classroom).