#summary Release Notes

= New Features and Fixed Issues =
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=85 Issue 85] Added a zoom slide to presentation module, for users without mousewheel
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=78 Issue 78] Added Desktop Sharing. The presenter can now do a screen-cast
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=5 Issue 5] Added Private Chat. Participants can now chat privately with any other participant in the conference
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=96 Issue 96] Fixed the thumbnail view in presentation module to be more responsive and user friendly
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=84 Issue 84] Only one instance of the upload window can now be opened.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bigbluebutton/issues/detail?id=75 Issue 75] bbb-setupdev -s (setup samba) now gives the correct path
  

= Desktop Sharing =
Desktop Sharing is the major new feature for release 0.5 To share the desktop with the participants, the person who is the presenter clicks the screen icon on the top toolbar. The size of area of the screen which the presenter wants to share is adjustable. Once the presenter starts sharing the size of the area cannot be changed; the presenter can still drag around the window to determine which portion of the screen gets shared.
Desktop Sharing is built using a Java applet on the client side. The client communicates with the applet, which sends captured images to the red5 server where the images get converted to flash video and are then streamed.

= Private Chat =
Another feature addition to 0.5 is the private chat. Any participant can now chat privately with anyone else in the room by choosing their name from the drop-down menu in the chat window. The messages are not saved on the server.
The private chat works in the same way as the public chat, except that each participant has a dedicated shared object on the server to which messages get sent, and to which only they listen to.