#summary This page contains information about displaying the content on a white board over public internet for the BigBlueButton system

= Introduction =

The white board module for the purpose of BigBlueButton is defined as the ability to show in real-time the content written/drawn on a particular white board to a remote user. A customized component designed specifically for BigBlueButton with strict guidelines such as pure mobility is what makes this unique.


= Details =

Nowadays presentations are not just limited to slides, therefore the main idea behind creating the Whiteboard module is to allow remote users to obtain the full experience as if they were attending the event in person. When the module is complete, the remote user will see a new window being updated in real-time to display what the presenter has written/drawn to the board. 

The events (presenter writing on the white board) will be captured using a Wii controller which will generate a Bluetooth signal that the computer will then take and convert to the desired format. 

There are many approaches to developing such a module. The three being considered are

 # When the Bluetooth signal is received it will be converted to Flash then sent to the Red5 server.  
 # When the Bluetooth signal is received it will be converted to Java then sent to the Red5 server. 
 # When the Bluetooth signal is received it will be converted to Java, then converted to flash then sent to the Red5 server. 

== Bluetooth2Flash ==

The conversion from Bluetooh to Flash is currently being researched. An API has been found

 * http://wiiflash.bytearray.org/

== Bluetooth2JAVA ==

The conversion from Bluetooh to Java is currently being researched. Several API have been found

 * http://code.google.com/p/bluecove/

= Tasks =

== To do ==

- Making a sensor bar and LED pen

- Integration of this standalone application with the BBB project.

== Current Items ==

Currently, we are writing the code that which will capture the presenter's interaction through the Wiimote on a whiteboard. There are 3 aspects considered so far are

Calibration:
This is needed to specify the area of the whiteboard and is necessary for scaling and boundary issues. The current protocol for this is to have the user touch the LED pen to the four corners of the board in a specific order. This has been completed but needs testing and bulletproofing as we are waiting on the hardware.

Scaling:
Once the area of the whiteboard has been determined, the flash application will display the contents at an equivalent ratio to the board. Therefore appropriate scaling algorithms need to be written. This is were our attention is directed towards at the moment.

Displaying
Once the previous two items are completed the flash application will be able to accurately represent the lecturers intentions. Now that information has been scaled down and is within the boundaries they will appear in the window. 


== Done ==

=== Achieve connection between PC and Wiimote ===

We are now able to get the Wiimote talking to the computer and register button events coming from the Wiimote in a .swf file. 

== Coding ==

We have tackled the calibration, scaling, and displaying items. However we have found that when it was scaled and calibrated it does not utilize the full window, instead the whiteboard is just limited to the upper left corner. So currently we are working on figuring out why this is so, and as well we are working on resizing the window to fit the appropriate scale, so as to avoid stretching or compressing the content being displayed.

== Pen ==

We have two choices when designing a pen, we can either come up with one that is used right on the screen, or in larger classrooms when the projection of the screen is way out of the presenters reach, we use a modified chalk holder. Our first priority is the chalk holder, as we need a working prototype by April 1st.






= Establishing a Connection between the wiiFlash Server and Wiimote =

These instructions are based on Rocketfish Bluetooth 2.0 EDR USB Adapter,  Model Number : RF-FLBTAD

* 1. Connect the Bluettooth Adapter to the PC.  *

This particular Bluetooth adapter comes with a cd of drivers. These drivers have proven to not work with the Wiimote. Research into these drivers has revealed that they do not allow the Wiimote to 'pair' to the user's PC, although the Wiimote is found using the scan feature. 

The current solution has been to simply plug in the USB adapter and (if using Windows XP /2000) to allow Windows to find and install the drivers automatically. Once the drivers are installed, the Wiimote can be turned on by pressing the 1 & 2 buttons at the same time. 

* 2. Right Click on the the Bluetooth symbol that appears in the task bar and select "Add a Bluetooth Device" *

* 3. Ensure that the Wiimote is ready to be found by pressing the 1 & 2 buttons at the same time on the Wiimote and then click on the checkbox my device is setup and ready to be found. Then click Next. *

* 4. Select the icon titled Nintendo RVL-CNT-01, then click Next. If that icon is unavailable click SearchAgain and make sure you are pressing the 1 & 2 buttons on the Wiimote simultaneously. *

* 5. Select the Option "Don't Use a passkey" and then click Next. *

* 6.It should state that the Bluetooth device was successfully connected to your computer. If so click Finish otherwise repeat these steps starting from 1. *

* 7. Run the "WiiFlashServer 0.4.5.exe" and the Wiimote should rumble indicating a connection has been established, but make sure that you press the 1 & 2 buttons of the Wimote *


=== Notes ===

After a short time of inactivity the Wiimote goes into hibernation, therefore when a connection needs to be established it is important that the Wiimote gets woken up and this is done by pressing the 1 & 2 buttons simulatenously. ***

Each time you close the Wiiflash server, it is necessary to remove the Wiimote from the list of Bluetooth devices and add it again before restarting the server. Therefore you can disconnect the Bluetooth adapter and start from step 1 of Establishing a Connection between the wiiFlash Server and Wiimote or you can follow these steps:

* 1. Right click on the bluetooth icon and select Show Bluetooth Devices.*

* 2. Select the icon titled Nintendo RVL-CNT-01 and click Remove.*

* 3. Click Add and continue at Step 3 of Establishing a Connection between the wiiFlash Server and Wiimote *